# Various python scripts for working with COCO annotations

As the title says. For specific information, please see individual files. 
At the beginning of each there are paths to input/output directories/files
-- change them to suit your needs. If there are any issues with the code, 
please report them

## initialize_coco.py

Produces a COCO file, just without the annotations. As an imput takes 
list of labels and a directory containing processed images. Acquired 
annotations then can be directly copied-and-pasted in the result json
under the `annotations` tag and if the `image_is`s and `category_id`s 
are coherent with ones generated by the script, all should work fine. 

## merege_cocos.py

Takes a directory containing coco files (*only*) and merges them into one,
reasigning IDs for images and annotations. Other coco attributes (`categories`
and `info` are copied from the first file in the directory)

## coco2svg.py

Exports coco annotations to SVG format, producing an image for each annotation.
The image contains the path traced in 1-pixel black line -- this format is 
accepted by GIMP for importing paths, but idk how it would work with other 
programs. 

## coco2png.py

Exports coco annotations to SVG format, so, effectively, *creates  RGB image masks
from the coco file*. Each image from the coco gets one mask, on which every 
annotation is marked. It does not support overlapping of different labels, as 
the next one is drawn on top of the other. The code is prepared for 4 label 
categories, but can be easily extended to any number of them. The script works
quite efficiently, producing around 150 images in something like 10 seconds.  